CloudFormation Modules (new  advanced module) (#166)
aws-samples/cfn101-workshop: content/advanced/modules/consume-example/index.md

---
title: "Consume the Example Module"
weight: 330
---

#### Using the Sample Module

> You have just created and registered a new CloudFormation module with the private registry in your AWS account and for a given AWS Region. This means that your module can now be used in CloudFormation template(s) you will leverage to create/update stack(s) in the same AWS Account and Region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have just created and registered a new CloudFormation module with the private registry in your AWS account and for a given AWS Region. This means that your module can now be used in your CloudFormation templates in the same way as any public AWS resource.
```

:::code{language=shell showLineNumbers=false showCopyAction=true}
touch use-module.yaml
:::

Open this file in your chosen text editor and paste the following CloudFormation YAML:

<!-- vale off -->
:::code{language=yaml showLineNumbers=false showCopyAction=true}
AWSTemplateFormatVersion: 2010-09-09

Resources:

  Vpc:
    Type: CFNWORKSHOP::EC2::VPC::MODULE
    Properties:
      VpcCidr: 10.1.0.0/16
:::
<!-- vale on -->

That's it. Nice and short isn't it? You can see why Modules are going to be so useful.

Let's create a new stack from that template using the following command:

:::code{language=shell showLineNumbers=false showCopyAction=true}
aws cloudformation deploy --template-file use-module.yaml --stack-name cfn-workshop-modules
:::

### Taking a closer look

Now that the Stack is deployed let's take a closer look at what actually happened. It will help to understand more on how Modules work in CloudFormation.

Open the AWS Console and navigate to the CloudFormation service. Locate the stack that you just created and select the `Resources` tab.
Notice that the Stack is showing it has 23 resources.

![stack-resources](/static/advanced/modules/StackResources.png)

> This number of resources can be explained if we take a look at the processed template for this stack. You can see that the actual template that CloudFormation deploys is based upon the content of the Module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This number of resources can be explained if we take a look at the processed template for this stack. You can see that the actual template that CloudFormation deploys is based upon the content of the module.
```

When a Module is consumed in a CloudFormation template the Module resource is replaced with the resources defined for it in the Module template.

![stack-template](/static/advanced/modules/StackTemplate.png)

### Challenge

Add tags to the resources so that the resources created are easily identifiable.

:::expand{header="Need a hint?"}
* Update the `module.yaml` file to add Tags to all the resources that support them. Documentation for adding tags to a VPC can be found [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ec2-vpc.html#cfn-ec2-vpc-tags).

> * Submit the changes and set the new version as the default version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Submit the changes, and set the new module version as the default version. For more information, see the `submit` [command](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation-cli/latest/userguide/resource-type-cli-submit.html) in the CloudFormation Command Line Interface reference.
```

> * Submit the changes, and set the new module version as the default version. For more information, see the `submit` [command](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation-cli/latest/userguide/resource-type-cli-submit.html) in the CloudFormation Command Line Interface reference.

Reviewer: We should add the actual command here instead of asking them to leave the page. `cfn submit --set-default`. Unless we don't want to spoil the entire solution as a challenge?

Author: This is the "need a hint" section. The full command is shown a little lower down in the "Want to see the solution?" section so i think we are good.
